---
section: 10. CAREER DEVELOPMENT
title: "Reflection on what is after the PhD"
edate: 2022-09-14
tags:
---


At the beginning of my PhD, I thought that I wanted to be doing an academic career. I think this has changed overtime due to many factors. I will discuss a few of these factors in this entry. However, this is an ongoing conversation I'm having with myself about my future.

**Type of work.**  
There has been a shift in my view of what type of experiments and work I would like to do on the scientific field. In the beginning, I was oriented towards experimental approaches. I have thoroughly enjoyed working in the wetlands for a very long time. However. I feel that during the PhD this has changed to me wanting to work more with bioinformatics and big data sets. I think previously I did not understand the power of bioinformatics and big data. I have learned a lot about this during my PhD. Since I had some background in programming, I decided that I wanted to do all my online from attics during the PhD. My supervisor has supported me by allowing me to go to courses to learn the skills that I need. Furthermore, I have spent a lot of time to develop new pipelines to be able to analyze datasets. I take a lot of pride in being able to do this. Because it's usually very difficult to communicate with bioinformaticians to get the proper analysis that you need. It is best when you are familiar with the biology and the science and also the programming.  

**The corona pandemic.**  
The pandemic has shown us what we are capable of doing when we are faced with challenges with our research. I think we have done a fairly good job at maintaining productivity while dealing with the pandemic. One aspect that I have learned about myself during this, is that I want to take a different approach in my research, and I want to move more towards bioinformatics. I enjoy making programs and tools to achieve analyses, then why not do it full time.  

**Entrepreneurship.**   
I am also contemplating whether I want to remain in the academic field. I think there is an opportunity for me to grow my skill further to work outside of academia and provide a service for data analysis instead. This would suite me very well as I like to always work on variety of projects simultaneously.

