---
section: 11. SUPERVISION/SUPERVISOR
title: "Reflection on supervision during and after the pandemic"
edate: 
tags:
---

**The pandemic has affected us one way or another.** While the university has not shut down completely during the pandemic, it was evident that there are several changes that affected everybody. For example, there were a lot of issues with ordering, a lot of delays with receiving shipments and materials to use. There was a lot of shortage in materials needed for protection, such as gloves. Moreover, it was not clear. Where there will be extensions for PhD students due to the pandemic or not. That definitely has affected the progress of the PhD. That also has affected the way the supervisor has to deal with this. I think it is a two way problem. The supervisor has to implement a new method of supervision and the supervisor has to also communicate differently about what they're going through. I think overall. We managed very well to deal with the pandemic in my lab. Here are some examples of the adjustments:  
**Less IRL meetings.**  
The availability of systems that allow online meetings has been a great addition to our routines. it is important to know that there is a way to communicate even though you cannot meet in person. of course, it took us a while to be able to adjust to this method of communication however I think after a while it was very useful and I think even after the pandemic we are still using any online systems on daily basis that fill the gap in communication. But this of course meant that you have to actively think about scheduling meetings with your supervisor in order to be have access to them. While it is a great behavior to schedule meetings before hand, it is sometimes difficult to Evaluate whether you need that help early in advance. 

**Less experiments vs. different types of experiments.**  
The delays in receiving materials and closures caused by the pandemic have forced us to change our daily routines and focus on tasks that require computer work more than experiments. But this does not mean that we are not able to do experiments. On the contrary I think this gave us an opportunity to evaluate how much experimentation we need versus how much time we need to think about the experiments we do and the time we need to analyze it. An example, there are sometimes experiments that you shelf to look at later and it takes a long time before you can analyze them. I think the pandemic has helped us to analyze a lot of these experiments, and at the same time has taught us to be able to evaluate whether we need an experiment.
I was lucky personally because I just had generated an RNA seq data set. which meant that I could spend a good amount of time analyzing it. this was a great experience for me, and it has deepened my love for bioinformatics and I think I will implement more of the bioinformatics in my future career.

**Supervising students during the pandemic.** I've had several students during the pandemic some of which we're able to perform experiments in the lab and others were able to do their products online without having to come to the lab. while there were some struggles, I think we managed to produce great work from these students. you can see some of the reports in the teaching section of this portfolio. I can say that I enjoy supervising students while they are here in person, however being able to teach them while they are online gives me more time to focus on my own study and also gives them their time to be able to develop on their own. I think it was great for them to experience that and I think they will benefit from it in their future.

**Effect on career goals.**  
As I have mentioned earlier, I focused more on bioinformatics during the pandemic. I found it to be very interesting and very exciting for me and I may decide to transition into bioinformatics fully after the end to PhD.
