---
section: 01. RESEARCH PROCESS
title: "Individual Reflection: Admission to PhD studies in Sweden"
edate: 
tags:
---

After I had completed my bachelor’s degree in biochemistry, I was not sure about my career goals and what direction I should take. Thus, I started examining the different options. I ended up joining a research group where I learned a lot of techniques and my research interest has started to grow. Then, I knew that I wanted a career in academic research. Thus, doing a PhD is a step in the right direction for a career as an academic researcher. I chose to follow the PhD program at Lund University because of my research interests. I have been in the field of lung fibrosis for the past two years and I am happy that now I can pursue a PhD in it now.

Honestly, there is not much alternatives I would see myself in at this point. I enjoy doing academic research and I feel very confident with the choices I have made. But to reflect on the “What if?” question. There are few alternatives I could have been doing now. My original educational track was to pursue medical school and eventually train as a physician. To this end, even after I finish the PhD program, I may still pursue this goal. Alternatively, I could have been working in a pharmaceutical company as a technician or in project management. If I had chosen this path, I may have been much happier with the time spent on the job and the quality of my life outside the professional brackets. However, I am sure I would not have been happy doing such work. It is true that I spend quite a lot of time at work daily, but I am generally content with how intellectually stimulated most of the time.

I do like to multi-task. This means that I like to carry on several projects the same time. This, of course, results in a heterogenous efficiency rates for each project. However, this methodology offers me an escape once I face a struggle in each project. I find it very helpful to immediately switch to a different task when I am stuck on one. Someone might say that this would create a lot of confusion and it would decrease effectiveness. This is possible at times of course, but generally it has been working well for me.

I expect myself to be the main driver of my project. This being said, I expect my supervisors to be reasonably available when I get stuck in areas where I lack experience. It is more important for me that the supervisors help me identify areas of knowledge and learning outcomes rather than to direct to specifically what I must do. I already receive a lot of supervision on weekly basis that is driven by my needs. I have not faced any problems this far. My supervisors may not always be experts in specific techniques I would like to pursue, thus my expectation in this case would be that the supervisors help establish new collaborations with persons who are able to teach and supervise me in such occasions. I luckily work in a multi-disciplinary environment where additional help is easily accessible.

I generally prefer to handle everything on my own. This of course has many interpretations and implications. As I said earlier, I prefer to be the main driver of my project. But of course, I will not be able to accomplish any of my work without the help of my supervisors. I am sure that there will be a lot of administrative hurdles that I would not be able to deal with myself. A discussion point in the intro to PhD course was the writing of a manuscript. I realized people have widely different opinions on how it should be done. In my opinion, if I am the first author of a paper, I should be responsible of the way the paper is written. Of course, I may lack the experience to produce a good manuscript. The role of my supervisor should be to direct me to produce a good one rather than to do it for me.

On the other hand, I mostly fear to manage the administrative hurdles. Part of my goals during the PhD is to learn how to manage administrative tasks and so. But I can foresee difficulties in that regard. I am certain that my supervisors will be able to help me overcome any hurdles.

The course requirements for the PhD program add up to 26,5 hp. The compulsory courses are: Introductory course, Oral communication, Research Ethics, Theory and Practice of Scientific Communication, Knowledge in collaboration - how free research creates values in society, Applied Qualitative Methodology, Applied Statistics I & II, Laboratory Animal Science. Comprehensive Generic Skills (Portfolio), and One elective course. So far, I have followed the Introductory course and Laboratory Animal Science.

As for the extra course work, I plan to take as many of the teaching non-compulsory courses such as problem-based learning. I intend to continue in an academic career, thus it is important for me to take these courses when I can.

I do think internationalization is very important. In fact, I am not from here and Sweden is the 5th country I live in to pursue my academic career. I can say that without this international experience, I would have not been the same person at all. Overall, experiences are what make us who were. So, the same goes for the PhD program, internationalization in this case would entail going abroad to different labs to learn and share knowledge across. I do plan to take parts of my PhD to go to different labs in different countries to achieve different goals.

I believe that my choices this far have been aligned with my future goals of pursuing a career as an academic researcher. But this is only the beginning. Anything could happen. But I am positive that I am on the right track for my career.