---
section: 01. RESEARCH PROCESS
title: "Performing the half time review as the Corona is spreading"
edate: 2020-12-15
tags:
---


My halftime was done on the 28th of October 2020. This was at the beginning of the period in which the university started implementing distancing rules and limiting the number of people that can be in a room. 

We held the half time at Dora Jakobson in BMC D15 and the only people present were the opponents and PhD supervisors. Everyone else was invited to join on Zoom. While this aspect was new to us, it was also a great opportunity for me to have my family (from Gaza) join us in the half time.

**Choice of opponents.** My opponents was Dr. Johan Jakobsson and Dr. Filipe Pereira, both of which are outside the lung field. The choice of the opponents was strategic for several reasons. First, the expertise of the opponents is very important to advance my PhD studies; Dr. Jakobsson has a great expertise in stem cells and chromatin modifications which is perfect for me since I have started working with Cleavage under target and release under nuclease (CUT&RUN), and Dr. Pereira is an expert in cell reprogramming and transcription factors role in stem cells and cell reprogramming. My focus of the PhD is on identifying context-relevant transcription factors in the stem cells of the lung epithelium that my play a role in fibrosis.

**The aftermath** I felt very good during the presentation and managed to comfortably explain all the different aspects of my PhD studies. ([**list of planned papers at the time**](/assets/files/halftime_papers.pdf)). I was able to have a good conversation with my opponents that was focused on the bigger picture an the relevance of my project, rather than experimental details of the different experiments. To me, this indicates that the quality of the experiments was high.

I hope that I will be able to complete my PhD despite the spread of the corona virus. While Sweden is not shutting down completely like other countries, we are already seeing changes in the dynamics of the different facilities and labs at the university.