---
section: 01. RESEARCH PROCESS
title: "Reflection on the application process: Successful vs. Rejected"
edate: 2022-03-01
tags:
---

I have so far applied to three grants to the Royal Physiographic Society (Fysiografen). I was lucky to recieve the first one which was a travel grant with amount 16 000SEK. The second one was a research grant that was rejected. The third was another research grant that was accepted luckily and I received 50 000SEK towards my research project.

There are a few similarities and differences between the two research grants. Here are the most important aspect that I think contributed to the decision of each grant:
- **Timing.** I applied for the rejected grant before my halftime review, and the one accepted was one year after the halftime. The fysiografen states that they give priority to PhD students who complete their halftime. While I was aware of this, I decided to apply anyways in order to practise research grant writing. Unfortnately, there werent any feedback given with the rejection. 
- **Amount.** The first grant that was rejected was supposed to go towards the purchase of a plate reader that potentially was going to cost 400 tSEK. The second grant was to cover the costs associated with mass spectrometry (MS) proteomics and the application totalled to 100 tSEK approximately. The grant call does not specify the amount to apply for, however, I can imagine that the first grant was over what the fysiografen usually awards PhD students. I have observed after being awarded the second grant that the fysiografen usually awards 50 tSEK to PhD students and 80 tSEK to PostDoc. Therefore, I think the fact that the first application was very high in amount, it may have discouraged the reviewers to consider it.
- **Experiments vs. equipment.** It seems to me that this type of grant is more suitable for research projects that are specific to experiments rather than equipment. While the design of the project for the first (rejected) grant included specific experiments using the specialized plate reader, the costs associated with that project was to planned to cover the costs of the device. Since this is a smaller grant, the fact that the granting agency gives less money may make it more difficult for them to consider a grant application for an individual piece of equipment that may have a large cost.

Overall, I think this was a postiive experience in general and I do think that my grant writing skills have improved through the PhD. This improvement is a result of grant applications and also helping my supervisor with larger grant applications.
