---
section: 01. RESEARCH PROCESS
title: "Writing up project plans for incoming students"
edate: 2021-01-30
tags:
---

This Year I am going to have three bachelor students simoltanously and will co-supervise 1 master student. 

Out of the three bachelor students, two are from the Universidad Francisco de Vitoria in Spain: Laura and Pablo. <a href="#s5" onclick="navigate('#s5')"> **See teaching section below.**</a>. And the third student Pieter is from Balgium. For Laura and Pablo, I needed to provide their University and Erasmus with a project plan before they come for their internship. For pieter on the other hand, the project plan was to be done after his arrival. 

I have done ths previously with Eliora who interned with me for 10 weeks in the summer of 2019. For Eliora, we have done a back and forth feedback to generate the project plan. This process was very usefull for both of us as I managed to explain all the necessary information for her and easily identify the gaps in knowledge to be able to come up with the plan. On the other hand for Laura and Pablo, due to the time limiation, I have firs designed their project plan with the intenstion to go through it on more time with them when they are here. This way, they can apply for erasmus scholarship and also get to learn how to improve project plans afterwards. 

Both of these projects were spun out of my PhD project but were made specific enough so the students get to generate new novel data and experience the research process from beginning to end.

Download: [**Laura's Project Plan**](/assets/files/Project_plan_Laura_martinez.pdf), [**Pablo's Project Plan**](/assets/files/Project_Plan_Pablo_Romero.pdf)