---
section: 02. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
title: "Single Cell RNAseq vs. Deconvolution of Bulk RNAseq"
edate: 2022-01-31
tags:
---

Single cell RNAseq has revolutionized the way we understand cell diversity in all tissues and resulted in the discovery of several celltypes during homeostasis or disease. Some transitional cell states were discovered using this technology. However, there are a few limitations of the technology that may effect the ability to detect specific cell populations. First, the method of which the single cell suspension is obtained effects whether all cell types are being presented. An example, in almost all the available lung single cell datasets, there is an overrepresentation of macrophages as these cells are easily captured in comparison to interstitial cells that could potentially become damaged during the process of their dissociation. Furthermore, the sequencing depth of single cell is very limited in comparison to bulk techniques. An example, some single cell data sets only contain few hundreds to a couple of thousand features while a bulk sample can contain more than 25000 features. This is due to the difficulty in recovering many of the less abundant transcripts in the single cells obtained. 

On the other hand, the bulk RNAseq usually does not discriminate against different cell types as there is no need for dissociation of cells in order to sequence the sample. Moreover, the depth of the bulk RNAseq is only limited by the amount of reads you choose to sequence. But the bulk RNAseq is limited in the fact that you cannot learn much about the cellular resolution and cell type distribution of the sample at hand. For this purpose, deconvolution bioinformatics pipelines have been implemented and developed to translate the bulk data into the celltypes that makes up that tissue based on a reference single cell dataset obtained from the same type of tissue sample.

There are advantages and disadvantages to using deconvolution. First, there is a concern that the deconvolution algorithms may not capture the true amount of cells. To this end, several studies have been done where they perform bulk RNAseq and single cell RNASeq on cell samples with known proportions of celltypes. The deconvolution in these studies have been shown to work with a great accuracy.

The cost associated with experiments is of course another important aspect to consider when doing these experiments. Single cell RNASeq is very expensive and may not always be necessary. 

A great example is one of my first author manuscript. I have developed a cell isolation protocol to obtain proximal and distal lung epithelial progenitors from an individual mouse. To validate these cells we differentiated them into organoids in 3D culture. To evaluate the cell diversity of the cell pellet we isolate from the mice, we did bulk RNAseq and deconvoluted the data using a published reference dataset.

While this part of the project has grown overtime during the PhD, I do not think that single cell RNAseq would have been able to improve the outcome of the study greatly. The assumption is that single cell will be better, however the high cost associated and the uncertainty surrounding whether we capture all cells make it less justifiable to perform a single cell RNAseq experiment. 

Technologies like these usually become cheaper overtime, maybe a reflection like this would have not been needed if this was a cheap experiment.