---
section: 02. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY
title: "Optimization of molecular techniques: Subcellular Fractionation and Immunoprecipitation"
edate: 2022-06-01
tags:
---

The success of the main aim of my PhD project (Identification of relevant transcription factors that are Yap/Taz partners) is highly dependant on the ability to perform a sequence of experiments successfully. This includes:

1. Primary cell isolation of proximal and distal lung epithelial cells.
2. Performing Cleavage under target and run under nuclease (CUT&RUN) on these cells.
3. Perform subcellular fractionation on the primary cells.
4. Perform pulldown of Yap/Taz containing complexes on the subfractionated samples.
5. Perform Mass spectrometry protemics on the pulled down samples.

Step 1 was optimzied and the developed protocol has been submitted as a first author manuscript which is under-review currently. 
Step 2 has been optimized in collaboration with PhD supervisor in Linköping, Dr. Claudio Cantù. This is discussed in another entry in this section. 

There are several established protocols for steps 3 and 4, however most of them use harsh chemicals that interfer with step 5. Thus, there was a need for optimization for these steps for compatability with later steps. 
I took the opporunity to optimize these steps and teach two students in the meanwhile. Bachelor studnet Pieter Plattiau from Balgium trained with me and we optimized step3 and bachelor student Inés Mínguez from Spain trained with me to optimize the Pulldown in step 4. Now we are ready to run all the mass spec.
