---
section: 03. SUBJECT EXPERTISE
title: "Bionfromatics. Gaining the expertise and more!"
edate: "2018-10-01. Updated: 2022-06-01"
tags:
---

In order to be able to manage the bioinforamtics analysis during my PhD. I took the approach of learning how to do the different bioinformatics piplines on my own. I have had programming experience previously, but I only started doing data analysis during the PhD. I taught myself how to use the statistical software R through online cources, guidlines, and practise. Following that, I took some advanced courses with NBIS.

NBIS has been a great source of training for me where I have learned a lot about bioinformatics analysis. I think I have developed my skills a lot with the courses I have taken there:

**SciLife Labs and NBIS: Omics Integration and Systems Biology**
SciLifeLab/NBIS, Stockholm, Sweden

**RaukR 2018. Advanced R programming for Bioinformatics Summer School**
SciLifeLab/NBIS, Visby, Götland, Sweden

In addition to these course, doing work with own datasets is maybe the most rewarding and best approch to learn bioinformatics. 

Now at the end of the PhD, I have developed several pipelines for RNAseq, single cell RNAseq, DNAseq, CUT&RUN, ChIPseq, TAXONOMY, and more. I think I have a huge appreciation for bioinformatics, artificial intellegence, and machine learning that I plan to do choose career path that heavily uses bioinformatics.

I do enjoy programming a lot. This is why I have designed this page from scratch to display my PhD protfolio.