---
section: 06. CONFERENCES AND SEMINARS
title: "Presented a poster at Keystone Conference 2019"
edate: 2019-02-15
tags:
---

The keystone symposia on Signal Dynamics and Signal Integration in Development and Disease was very instrumental to my doctoral studies. the conference was in tandem with another symposia on Cellular plasticity which exposed me to more opportunities to interact with more fields related to my topic of study. 

I presented a poster on the role of Yap/Taz in lung epithelial cells and their effects in alterations of the extracellular matrix. I have received great feedback on my project and was able to move forward with the project. 

During the conference, I was able to meet several peers who are also in their graduate careers. I was able to exchange some protocols with them. Some of which I am currently working on implementing in my laboratory. The fact that this was a multidisciplinary meeting gave me the opportunity to expand my knowledge on understand the benefits of my work in a bigger picture. Finally, I was able to meet and interact with several pioneers in stem cell and developmental signaling research that may be a source of new collaborations in the future.

**Alsafadi HN,** Staab-Weijnitz CA, Tas S, Stegmayr J, Stein M, Lehmann M, Königshoff M, Wagner DE. Yap/Taz contribute to extracellular matrix derangement in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis through regulation of lysyl oxidase expression in distal lung epithelium. Keystone Symposia. Keystone, CO, USA. 2019