---
section: 07. NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION WITH THE RESEARCH COMMUNITY
title: "Knowledge in Collaboration Course: Reflection on Collaboration and Entrepreneurship"
edate: 2019-10-15
tags:
---
**Title: Relevance for me, my attitudes and what I want to learn.**
Several factors may contribute to a successful research career and these factors are dependent on the environment where the research is conducted and the attitudes of the research. I do believe that collaboration and innovation are among these factors that contribute to a successful research career. However, I had not given enough consideration and thought to the role of entrepreneurship. Many biomedical researchers go into their perspective fields in the goal of figuring out a disease or a problem that affect humanity one way or another. Thus, entrepreneurship is not on the radar of many biomedical researcher. Personally, I think if an opportunity presents itself through my research career, I would pursue the entrepreneurship route. However, I do not have it as a direct goal of my career.

I believe that collaboration in research is extremely important. The more we learn in our fields, the more questions we have. And there isn’t enough time for anyone to explore a research question on their own. In terms of doctoral studies, I need collaborations to learn several of the skills that I need to finish my project. Currently, I have several collaborators locally at Lund university, and generally in Sweden in addition to other international collaborations. I believe that my role in these collaborations is to trust the expertise of my collaborators and give back the same level of quality to earn their trust. Having clear assigned roles in collaboration is usually very helpful to accomplish the different goals.

My current research is studying pathomechanisms of pulmonary fibrosis. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a lethal disease with unknown causes and no available cure. The lack of effective therapies can be attributed to the gap in knowledge of disease pathomechanisms. My research project is aimed at finding new transcriptional complexes that are active during disease. Knowledge gained in my research project can aid in finding new therapies for this lethal disease. 

From the introductory lecture, there was a great focus on entrepreneurship. I would like to learn more about such opportunities and how our environment here (Lund) can be helpful in that regard. Additionally, I look forward to learning how to understand and create value of my research.

After the course: 
[**Download final reflection after the course**](/assets/files/Alsafadi_HN_Assignment%204.docx)