---
section: 08. COOPERATION WITH WIDER SOCIETY
title: "Public Summary of my PhD project"
edate: 
tags:
---

**Unravelling the unknown of lung fibrosis to find a treatment for the incurable disease.**

Lung fibrosis is a deadly disease with no available cure. Lung fibrosis can be described as an excessive injury to the lung that stiffens it preventing the barer of the disease from breathing. If you think of the lung as a balloon, lung fibrosis is like crumbling parts of the balloon continuously without stopping. Currently, the only available drugs do not help the patients, they only slow down the disease progression. These patients only survive for a few years once diagnosed. This is because we do not understand the exact causes of the disease. My doctoral studies are focused on identifying specific mechanisms related to lung stiffness in order to find new effective therapies for lung fibrosis.

Although the exact causes of lung fibrosis are unknown, many molecular events have been studied and our understanding of the disease is increasing. The lung contains as many as 40 different cell types to carry out the various functions of the lung, some of which are known as epithelial cells. Epithelial cells are located on the surface of the internal parts of the lung and they are responsible for gas exchange (i.e. breathing). These cells are heavily damaged in patients with lung fibrosis.  Our research team has found two molecules to be involved in the damage of the epithelial cells, they are called YAP and TAZ, and they are known for their ability to sense changes in stiffness. In lung fibrosis, these molecules are active and are responsible for causing some of the disease characteristics. However, in normal conditions these molecules are necessary for maintaining normal functions. We are using state-of-the-arts techniques to identify the exact roles of these molecules in the different types of cells in health and disease. YAP and TAZ are like good cops that have gone rogue in fibrosis and we are investigating why so we can fix the damage they caused.

The problem with current approved drugs is that they are not specific and that is one of the reasons they do not work. Finding out the exact roles of YAP and TAZ in the lung compartments and learn how they are involved in the progression of lung fibrosis will lead us to finding highly specific drugs. Highly specific drugs will be able to stop the rogue cops without harming the good ones. Additionally, these molecules are involved in several other organs and diseases, thus knowledge gained in this research can be easily transferable to other disciplines.