---
section: 08. COOPERATION WITH WIDER SOCIETY
title: "Conversations with friends and Family about Covid"
edate: "Updated:2022-09-12"
tags:
---

I have written the title for this entry long time ago but I did not write any text at the time. It felt as if it was impossible to explain the feelings and the emotions that were going on at the time. I needed time to process it.

We work in the lung field and as much as we explain about what we research, it remains a puzzle for family and friends. So when something happens in relation to the lung, they turn to us to ask questions as if I had the medical knowledge to give them advice. The main challenge for me is that what people seek is advice rather than explanation. 

So when the pandemic hit, It felt impossible to answer questions about the pandemic. Of course I was reading a lot of the papers that were coming out and listening to all the news, but at the same time, it's not enough input to produce actionable advice for anybody to help them out. I later understood that what they want is reassurance that they will be fine. Simply, because they are scared.

I found the best way to deal with this was to actually stick to what I know and what I can understand and analyze. In other words, it was as if I was trying to do a popular summary of the papers that come out. Thus, whenever I got the chance, I put in the time to explain what I have learned in simple words for people around me. I think for some of the people around me they found it helpful and they were able to understand more of what's going on in order to form their own decision of what to do. 

I think understanding the depth of the problem, leads to more compliance with regulations and recommendations with regards to social distancing and other measures to prevent spread of the disease.

I honestly think that there is a lot left to process about the pandemic and it will be some time before we all fully recover. 