---
section: 09. ETHICAL ISSUES
title: "Ethical self assessment"
edate: 2020-05-01
tags:
---

My research explores the role of specific co-transcriptional activators (Yap/Taz) in the lung epithelium in the context of Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis (IPF). IPF is a lethal chronic lung disease with no cure. The exact causes of the disease are unknown and median survival is 2.5 to 3.5 years. Current available therapies are only able to slow down the disease progression. To date, there isn’t a therapy that can stop or reverse this disease. The molecular mechanisms of disease progression involve several signaling pathways in the different cell types of the lung. The specific role of the lung epithelium is not well understood. The aim of my research project is to identify new transcriptional complexes that are relevant to IPF pathogenesis.

The approaches of my research studies are highly reliant on the use of primary cells. We thus isolate primary epithelial cells from both mouse and human tissue. Of course, there are ethical considerations for the use of animal or human subjects.

In the mouse experiments, the aim to induce fibrotic characteristics using the administration of Bleomycin. This model of fibrosis is well established and commonly used. We have obtained the ethical approvals for appropriate durations of the length of the experiments. There are not many ethical issues with the cell isolation after the animal has been sacrificed. However, the use of the specific cells in our studies will help answer our research question directly. Thus, this contributes to the concept of the 3R as we will not need to sacrifice many mice for the purpose of the study. A big part of my work is to optimize these isolation protocols to cut down the number of animals used to less than half of what is equivalently used in literature.

As for the use of human tissue, we have a partnership with the thoracic surgery department at the hospital. We have been granted the ethical approval to use excess tissue from transplant surgeries and possibly failed transplants. These tissues would be disposed of otherwise. Thus, we have obtained the ethical approval to use these tissues and all the necessary considerations are taken into place, such as informed consent. The way it is done in Sweden is that the person receiving a donated organ is the responsible person for what happens to that tissue. We thus get informed consent to use this tissue from the recipient of the donor lungs. Of course, all these procedures are taken care of at the hospital. At our preclinical lab, we only get the tissue if it has been approved to be sent to us. I mostly do epithelial cell isolations from these tissues. Thus, one ethical consideration that is always taken in consideration is the privacy and the dealing with sensitive information. It is of course highly unlikely to identify someone solely by the tissue, but we anyways have taken a lot of measures to avoid any breech of this privacy. When we receive a human tissue material, we assign a new identifier for that piece of tissue and all data regarding the patients/donors are not provided for us. The only information we obtain are the age and gender of the of tissue as approved. The reason we need this information is because they play a major role in the behavior of the cells obtained from these tissues (i.e. cells from older tissues do not have the same proliferative capacity).

We are highly privileged to be able to perform studies on primary tissues. We are always grateful for that and we do treat these tissues with the most respect.