---
section: 09. ETHICAL ISSUES
title: "Interviewed by Andrea Wiszmeg: Responsible research in science"
edate: 2022-09-01
tags:
---

Andréa Wiszmeg from the Department of Social Work at Malmö University has reached out to conduct an interview with me with regards to a project on ethics they are running. 

Among the aims of this project was to undertand how "responsible researchers"  are fostered. Here is a quote from the abstrac for their project:

> One of the aims of the project is to understand how “responsible researchers” are fostered. We look into how ethical reflexivity is expressed, practiced and understood in the day-to-day of biomedical research environments. But what happens to our knowledge production when we make biomedical researchers engage in this bird’s-eye view on their research and its socio-cultural circumstances? How can neither taking a distanced position, nor engaging in direct activism but rather pushing toward areas we consider possible hotbeds for public debate be further theoretically conceptualized? What does such an endeavor imply for our role as STS scholars? And how does that connect to the tendency to engage humanities and social science scholars as interpreters and mediators in cross-disciplinary projects in knowledge-intensive policy fields, such as ours ? In what way is the symmetry principle (Bloor, 1976) affected, when value-laden initiatives as ethical reflexivity and public engagement is treated as an inherent good or as “truths” to be pursued?  
[**Source**](https://www.diva-portal.org/smash/record.jsf?pid=diva2%3A1656512&dswid=957)

In this interview, we have talked about the use of 3D bioprinting in research and what are the ethical considerations that we take in order to maintain our reponsible research behaviour. We have also talked about the use of primary cells in research and the ethical aspects of that.