---
section: 09. ETHICAL ISSUES
title: "Reflection on the ethics of Big Data and the types of data that need to be secured" 
edate: 2021-09-10
tags:
---

There is no doubt that the big data has changed the way we do science and have opened so many new avenues that allow us to explore our data better. There are many techniques right now that utilize big data or produce big data such genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, and many other omics. However, there is an important issue that is associated with this. Which is when you produce big data from a patient sample, it is as if you are creating a fingerprint or signature of that person’s molecular makeup. But the level of information you can obtain from each element is variable of course. And it is not always clear whether you get identifying information from that comic or not. So maybe one day. You imagine that your big data does not have any identifying information about your patients, however. Somebody can at some point produce a technique, or a methodology that will obtain such data from your data set, since our bioinformatics pipelines are increasingly improving and there's a lot more information that we can learn from data by simply doing some mathematical models on it. Therefore, the question becomes, how do we deal with this when we are dealing with patient samples? Of course, the ethical committees that approve studies that contain big data have thought about this and it is becoming a requirement for people. To include how they will save and secure the patient data.
This is certainly an interesting topic. While patient information must be secured at any cost, there should always be enough access to the data used in any analysis. To be able to fully evaluate the science that is produced.
I think that a lot of the main institutes are trying hard to address this issue and there are many regulations that are associated with it. And there are many big institutes that provide Tools such as NCBI or ENI. However. These tools are not usually available for all types of data. An example, there are several recent advances in imaging that allow us to produce high content high quality images of samples that may one day be able to contain identifying information that can identify the patient of that sample. Such as this specific marker. Or things that are associated with disease.
In my own research, I usually do my best to deidentify all the samples that I have. And make sure that there is no information that can be used to identify the samples that we are using. I think the field is moving in a good direction and that there is a lot of effort going into preventing problems in this regard. However, I think it is important for all of us who are working with this type of data to be careful with this and to be considerate of the patient material that we get.
