---
section: 09. ETHICAL ISSUES
title: "The use of the LUBI Secure Cluster"
edate: 2022-09-12
tags:
---

In reading My Portfolio so far, it is probably noticeable that I talk a lot about big data and the type of things we need to analyze it and store it. A very important resource that has been available during the PhD was the LUNARC cluster. High-powered computation is very important for this type of analysis because you require a lot of RAM and a lot of CPU in order to be handle such large datasets. However. Do you have computing systems need to be maintained? And there are of course many ways to do that, one of which is to be able to update these systems online. So, in many cases, the high computing cluster is connected to the Internet, so the software packages can be updating themselves automatically or manually. So, when having any system connected to the Internet. This system becomes susceptible to attack. And that it's possible that any type of data can be stolen from that system. Our high computing cluster is quite secure and requires multifactor authentication to be accessed. However. It is still important to be able to secure data and especially patient data.
Luckily. We have the LUBI cluster. LUBI Is another computer cluster That is managed by the stem cell center and is used for secure data. This system is disconnected from the Internet and can only be accessed while you are present at the BMC. I think it's great that we have access to the system Even though it requires a lot of more work in order to be able to analyze data on it. The reason is that you require a lot of software to be installed manually on another machine and then transfer it to install it on the secure cluster. Of course, it is worth it to do all of this to be protective of patient data.

Currently, there isn't a similar system to use for analyzing imaging data. Therefore, it's important to try to fight for resources to be able to create such a system.
